---
slug: "ifcp-2021"
title: "Erlang Workshop 2021 - ICFP 2021"
author: "Marcel Lanz"
author_title: "eigr.io Core Team"
author_url: "https://github.com/marcellanz"
author_image_url: "https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/12616445?v=4"
tags: [serverless, eigr]
---

We're excited to be selected
for [one of the Lightning Talks](https://icfp21.sigplan.org/details/erlang-2021-papers/13/Lightning-Talk-eigr-io-A-Serverless-Runtime-on-the-BEAM)
right after the Erlang Keynote at the ICFP Erlang Workshop 2021.

## Abstract

Serverless runtimes are often hidden in a cloud providers offering and exposed solely by their programming API and
deployment procedures. In this talk, we’ll explore an open-source Serverless runtime built for the cloud and
on-premises, running on the BEAM with a polyglot programming model to build general purpose applications.

Building general purpose applications using multiple languages and having a story how to handle state was our main
motivation to explore the space of a Serverless runtime to be built. We think the BEAM, OTP and Elixir/Erlang are a
perfect match to build on.

With this talk, we combine herein the world of the BEAM with cloud technology like a gRPC-based protocol, Kubernetes and
a polyglot programming model with languages supported like Go, JavaScript, JVM-languages, Python and many more.

https://icfp21.sigplan.org/details/erlang-2021-papers/13/Lightning-Talk-eigr-io-A-Serverless-Runtime-on-the-BEAM

## Lightning Talk: eigr.io — A Serverless Runtime on the BEAM

### Welcome

Hello. Thanks for having me here at the 20th ACM SIGPLAN Erlang Workshop of 2021. I'm excited to talk about a project I
and a few collaborators have been working for the last couple of months.

### Subject

In this talk, I'll give a very short introduction why we at the Eigr project think a serverless runtime is relevant
these days, what we're building currently as an open-source project and why we think the Erlang system on the BEAM is a
perfect match for this project.

### Serverless

So what is Serverless. Serverless is a buzzword all around these days. The term is used and associated with a form to
run code that interfaces primarily with a simple function signature like this one:

```go
func HandleRequest(ctx context.Context, name Event) (string, error) {
        return fmt.Sprintf("Hello %s!", name.Name ), nil
}
```

Function as a Service was introduced by Amazon with their Lambda runtime a few years ago and many still associate
Serverless with Function as a Service.

### Severless is a Product

> Severless is a Product – unknown


Kelsey Hightower is well known to comment on trends in cloud computing and just last week he tweeted about a topic of
the broader context of this talk

> Open protocols backed by proprietary implementations is the future of managed services. – Kelsey Hightower

### Message In, Message Out

### Closing

Project Eigr just started.

Project Eigr is currently completely open source and done by volunteers 100%.

We're running already a service proxy with the Action Protocol implemented solved one of the first challenges of gRPC
Reflection support.

Many other topics like distributed state management (for Event Sourcing, CRUD and CRDTs), Language SDKs, documentation

### Questions